---
layout: post
title: ST 558 Project 1
---

# Links

[Rmd Output(all the functions and EDA)](https://curlysheep.github.io/ST558Project1/)

[Here's my github repo page](https://github.com/CurlySheep/ST558Project1)

# What I Did

In this project, I conect my R studio to the Github page and learned how to control github project by R studio. I also wrote multiple functions to grab information from the NHL records API. At last, I did some basic exploratory data analysis about overall information for all franchises and all goalies. I wish to explore the relationship between home vs road win rate, win rate vs seasons and so on.

I found that home field advantage does exist. Lucky, the effect of home field advantage for each teams remain in constant.

# Diffcult Part

The most difficult part for me is to link my R project to Github. Living in China I can't connect to Github directly, so I had to switch connect locations of VPN multiple times in order to find a stable one.

After that, when I created the github repo, I set the visibility as private. This caused I can't just copy the URL and create git project in R. I had to wait a long time watching it clone from github and always failed at last. At the begining I thought it was due to my bad net connection, so I spent lots of time searching for solutions, and I even try to clone it by CMD. I spent more than 5 hours to figure out that the problem was the public/private thing (some of my classmates faced the same problem and they shared the expirence on Slack channel).

# In the Futrue

I started this project 3 days before the deadline and everything was in a rush. I'll definitely start much more eariler next time.
