---
layout: post
title: Programming experience
---

# R vs SAS

I only learned SAS for 1 sememster and I'm not good at it, so my opinion may be a little unfair. To me, SAS is too difficult and too restricted. R code is more readable than SAS; I can freely identify anything in R like functions or vectors, which is more difficult to do in SAS. Reading data in SAS is just a disaster, 'disaster' even contaion 'SAS'!

However, the table and statistics analysis output by SAS is charming and detailed, where you can nearly find everything you want from a statistics model report. I believe that R can actually store most statistics, but I always find it difficult to output one of them, such as the residual standard error of the model.

# What I Like about R

The R packages. You think python/SAS perform well? No worrys, because we can copy the function in python/SAS just by downloading the corresponding R package. Yeah I know that other programs can run R functions too, but the community of R package is larger I think.

# First Learning Experience

I first contact RStudio when I was in my junior year after I passed an interview of a statistics center. I was asked to use ggplot2 to generate multiple beautiful graphs (histograms with gradient colors, wind-rose plots and so on) in 3 days, as a quick study of R. Luckily it was during the holiday, so I spent the whole 3 days reading and searching the Internet to learn R by myself. It was definitely a tough time but I delivered satisfactory results at last.

After that, I have participated in multiple statistics projects and most of them required the use of R, so I gradually get used to it.


